## DB Integration

* [Database Initialization](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.x/reference/html/howto-database-initialization.html)


---

```java
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/DATABASENAME?serverTimezone=UTC
spring.datasource.username=root
spring.datasource.password=password
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=create-drop
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.dialect=org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL8Dialect
spring.jpa.show-sql=true
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.format_sql=true

```

1. spring.datasource.url:

This property specifies the URL of the MySQL database you want to connect to. In your case, it's connecting to a database named "DATABASENAME" on the local machine (localhost) using port 3306.
The serverTimezone=UTC part sets the timezone for the database connection to UTC.

2. spring.datasource.username:

This property specifies the username for authenticating with the MySQL database. In your case, the username is "root".

3. spring.datasource.password:

This property specifies the password for the user specified in the spring.datasource.username property. In your case, the password is "password".

4. spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto:

This property controls the automatic schema management behavior for Hibernate, the JPA implementation. The value "create-drop" means that when the application starts, Hibernate will create the database schema based on your entity mappings, and when the application stops, it will drop the schema.
Usage: This option is often used during development and testing to have a clean slate for each run. However, be cautious because using it in production can lead to data loss.

  Options and Usage:

  * none:  No automatic schema management.
   Usage: When you want to manage schema changes manually, possibly using database migration scripts.

  * validate: Hibernate validates schema against entity mappings without making updates.
   Usage: In production, to ensure schema matches entity mappings without automatic changes.

  * update: Hibernate validates schema and performs necessary updates to match mappings.
   Usage: During development and testing to automatically update schema as entity mappings change. Be cautious in production due to potential unintended changes.

  * create: Hibernate drops existing schema and recreates it based on entity mappings.
   Usage: In development or testing to start fresh each application run. Caution: Data loss occurs.

  * create-drop: Similar to create, but drops schema on application shutdown too.
   Usage: During development and testing for a clean slate on each run. Data loss occurs.



5. spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.dialect:

This property specifies the Hibernate dialect for MySQL. The org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL8Dialect is suitable for MySQL 8.x databases.

6. spring.jpa.show-sql:

This property, when set to true, instructs Spring Boot to log SQL statements generated by Hibernate. This can be helpful for debugging and understanding the actual SQL queries being executed.

7. spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.format_sql:

When set to true, Hibernate's SQL output will be nicely formatted and indented, making it more readable in the logs.


* ***@Entity*** - Entities in JPA are nothing but POJOs representing data that can be persisted to the database.
  An entity represents a table stored
  in a database. Every instance of an entity represents a row in the table.

  ```java
  @Entity
  public class Blog {
      // ...
  }
  ```
* ***@Table*** - Specifies the primary table for the annotated entity.
  ```java
  @Entity(name = "table_blogger")
  public class Blogger {
      // ...
  }
  ```
  Hibernate:
  ```SQL
  create table table_blogger (
    ...
  ```
* ***@Transient*** - Specifies that the property or field is not persistent.
  ```java
  @Transient
  private boolean loggedIn = false;
  ```
* ***@Column*** - Specifies the mapped column for a persistent property or field.
    * **name**
      ```java
      @Entity
      @Table(name = "table_blogger")
      public class Blogge {
          @Column(name = "pass")
          private String password;
          // ...
      }
      ```
      Hibernate:
      ```SQL
      create table table_blogger (
        pass varchar(255),
        ...
      ```

* ***@Id*** - Specifies the primary key of an entity.
  ```java
  @Id private Long id;
  ```
* ***@GeneratedValue*** - Provides for the specification of generation strategies for the values of primary keys.
  ```java
  @Id @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
  private Long id;
  ```
The @GeneratedValue annotation with GenerationType.IDENTITY is commonly used to indicate that the primary key values for entities should be generated automatically by the database (usually using an auto-increment mechanism). However, there are other strategies available that you can use based on your specific needs. Here are some alternative strategies and when you might use them:

GenerationType.AUTO:

This strategy lets the JPA provider (like Hibernate) choose the appropriate generation strategy based on the underlying database capabilities.
Usage: You might use this if you're targeting multiple database systems with different auto-generation capabilities and you want the JPA provider to choose the most appropriate strategy for each.

GenerationType.SEQUENCE:

This strategy uses database sequences to generate primary key values. Sequences are often supported by databases like Oracle.
Usage: When you're working with a database that supports sequences and you want more control over the generated values, or when you're dealing with a legacy database schema that uses sequences.

GenerationType.TABLE:

This strategy involves using a separate database table to manage the generation of primary key values. The table stores the next available value, and the application periodically queries and updates this table.
Usage: When you're working with databases that don't support auto-increment or sequences, or when you need more control over primary key generation. This strategy can be slower compared to others due to the additional table accesses.

GenerationType.UUID:

This strategy generates primary key values as UUIDs (Universally Unique Identifiers). UUIDs are globally unique identifiers.
Usage: When you want to ensure that primary keys are universally unique across distributed systems or when you don't want to rely on database-specific auto-generation mechanisms.
* ***@Enumerated*** - Specifies that a persistent property or field should be persisted as a enumerated type.
  ```java
  // file: rating.java
  public enum Rating {
      BAD, GOOD, EXCELENT
  }
  ```
  ```java
  // file: Post.java
  @Enumerated(value = EnumType.STRING)
  private Rating rating;
  ```
* ***@Query***
  ```java
  public interface CommentRepository extends JpaRepository<Comment, Long> {
  
      @Query("select c from Comment c where text like %:substring%")
      List<Comment> findCommentContainingSting(String substring);
  }
  ```
* ***@Temporal*** - Annotation must be specified for persistent fields or properties of type `java.util.Date` and `java.util.Calendar`. It may only be specified for fields or properties of these types.
  ```java
  private Calendar calendar;

  @Temporal(TemporalType.DATE)
  private Calendar date;
  
  @Temporal(TemporalType.TIME)
  private Date time;
  
  @Temporal(TemporalType.TIMESTAMP)
  private Calendar timestamp;
  ```
  | java.util.Calendar | java.util.Calendar | java.util.Date | java.util.Calendar
        | --- | --- | --- | ---
  | - | TemporalType.DATE | TemporalType.TIME | TemporalType.TIMESTAMP
  | *datetime* | *date* | *time* | *datetime*
  | 2021-09-27 15:02:10.267000 | 2021-09-27 | 15:02:10 | 2021-09-27 15:02:10.267000

### Constraints
* ***Not null (JPA)***
  ```java
  @Column(nullable = false)
  private String username;
  ```
  Hibernate:
  ```SQL
  create table table_blogger (
     ...
     username varchar(255) not null,
  ```
* ***Unique***
  ```java
  @Column(nullable = false, unique = true)
  private String username;
  ```
  Hibernate:
  ```SQL
  alter table table_blogger 
    add constraint UK_ap2t1ctdrr06r9nyd09jtglan unique (username)
  ```

### More Links
* [Query Creation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jpa/docs/current/reference/html/#jpa.query-methods.query-creation)
* [Learn JPA & Hibernate](https://www.baeldung.com/learn-jpa-hibernate)
